>> Spencer Schneidenbach: There are times
when you want to save or set an entity's
properties during save because you
wanna do some kind of auditing.
Maybe you wanna update a field to say,
hey, this record was updated last
at this time or maybe you wanna know
the last person who touched a record.
So Entity Framework Core has a few
things that can help with this.
Let me first kinda demonstrate, and
I do use this pattern quite a bit.
Where I will have a base class, an entity
base class, that's an abstract class,
which means I can instantiate it directly,
it's not stored in the database directly.
And what I can do with it is I can say,
here's all the common properties.
So I'll put a ID on there oftentimes,
or I will have created by or
last modified by, as well as a created
on date and a last modified on date.
And those things, believe it or not,
as you get into programming and
into serious programming, those things
can mean quite a bit to your application.
It can mean something, especially when
you're trying to track problems down.
We're declaring the props as nullable to
make migrating just a little bit easier.
But in practice, if you didn't do this
first, which I highly recommend you do,
it's something that you would, one,
have to set them to as you
wouldn't want them to be nullable.
You'd want them to be
hydrated with a value.
So we're gonna go ahead and
close this solution,
open up the next one
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Repos are up
over here, and
we're gonna go to auditing properties,
and we are gonna go down here.
We're gonna go to our solution explorer,
a little bit cleaner view,
and we are going to copy
in our auditable entity.
And we are going to just do just for
the sake of demonstration,
we're just gonna apply this
to our Employee object.
We're gonna call it abstract
class AuditableEntity, and
then we are going to
inherit from that class.
We will go ahead and
add a migration.
Dotnet ef migrations add
AddNewAuditPropsToEmployee.
Cd TheEmployeeAPI and
then try to rerun it.
Perfect.
We're gonna take a look at our migration.
We never take migrations for granted.
And we're gonna see CreatedBy,
CreatedOn, last modified, last on.
Those are things that we wanna
have in those in this field.
And then we can do this cool thing
where we override the SaveChanges and
the SaveChangesAsync method.
Worth mentioning, there is a regular
SaveChanges method if, for
some reason you can't use sync, async.
But so that's there for you.
And what we can do is modify our
DbContext such that when we call
SaveChanges, we can actually spin
through our change tracker here and
then update those entities before
they're actually saved to the database.
So this is referred to as interception.
It gives you a huge amount of power
to control how entities are set.
I don't expect that, and
I don't want you to abuse this power, but
in this case, it's actually quite helpful.
So what you can do is you can go through
each of the entities in the change
tracker, you can foreach through them.
And then if entity state is added, you can
set your created by or created on and
created on properties to UTC now.
And then if it's modified instead,
you could say last modified by
the update user and
then last modified on DateTime.UtcNow.
And then to make sure that that
is called every time when you're
calling SaveChangesAsync, you'll
simply override SaveChangesAsync here.
Because it's a virtual method,
which is awesome.
And then you can just update
your auditable fields here.
So that that'll do is every
time that change is made,
now these dates will be applied.
Now this string will be
applied to those fields.
So you can kinda use them to
change things on the fly.
Again, a power that you should use narrowly,
but very useful at times,
especially for situations like this.
So I wanna make sure that
those values are being set.
So I'm gonna look at my tests to do that.
So first thing I'm gonna do is I am going
to refactor to use something that's gonna
look a little strange,
but it is very useful.
And it is used by Microsoft to test
things, and it's called ISystemClock.
And what ISystemClock does is simply
expose out the DateTime.UtcNow field.
This abstraction is useful because then
you can create a fixed moment in time,
as opposed to trying to guess
what the value of that field is,
you can just say these tests
always run in 1/1/2022.
So that way we can guarantee that's what
the the database field is always gonna be.
So we're gonna say
builder.Services.AddSingleton.
And we're gonna say ISystemClock.
We're gonna take the one from
Extensions.Internal.
And then we are going to say SystemClock.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: That's good.
That's stuff.
And if you look at the definition for
SystemClock, you see it literally only
returns UTC now, off of a type called
DateTimeOffset, which we haven't covered.
It's a datetime that also tracks
the current offset of the time zone that
you're in.
That's really all you need to know.
But we can get the UTC
time from that as well.
So we're gonna do that.
We're gonna actually modify our DbContext
to actually use this ISystemClock.
We're gonna do that here,
make one more change.
We're gonna actually inject
it here into our constructor.
You're gonna see now we have our
ISystemClock, we will go ahead and
import it, which is what we need to do.
And now when we save changes, we're
actually reaching for that system clock.
And again, this is really valuable
only if you're testing this field,
if you feel like this is worth testing.
And we're gonna put it right here.
We're gonna get back in our
CustomWebApplicationFactory.
That's our test runner that will
change all the systems for our tests.
We will scroll down and we will add.
And you can see that we are setting it to
our time to 01-01-2022, at zero o'clock.
We're gonna go to our
CustomWebApplicationFactory.
We're going to paste it down here.
We're gonna command + dot to import things.
That's looking pretty good.
And then lastly, we wanna just
make sure that in our update,
employee returns okay result test.
That we set that that system clock
time is exactly what we set
it to in our test system.
So I'm gonna go down here.
I am going to copy that line in.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And then I am
going to actually debug this test kinda
just to show.
We're gonna build, so dotnet build.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Now
our tests show up.
I'm gonna hit the little bug so
that it debugs.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And we're gonna
see that when we hit this break point,
our last modified on should be 1/1/2022,
which it is because we've taken that
time from the ISystemClock interface.
And then we have, of course,
our test system clock where
we've fixed our date and time to 1/1/2022.
So the main point I wanted you to
take from that is really about
the auditable entries and
how you can kinda change things.
But a little bit of a test technique
if you're dealing with time and
you need to go back to
a fixed point in time,
the system clock interface
is very useful for that.